Localization
============

Since version 4.1 the labels that describe the information are translatable.

.. admonition:: Limitation

   Internal messages or exceptions are not translatable,
   the internationalization is limited to the "tags" returned by
   the ``getAsXML`` and ``asXML`` methods of the Movie, Person, Character,
   or Company classes.

   Beware that in many cases these "tags" are not the same as the "keys" used
   to access information in the same class. For example, you can translate
   the tag "long-imdb-name" -the tag returned by the call
   ``person.getAsXML('long imdb name')``, but not the key "long imdb name"
   itself. To translate keys, you can use
   the :func:`helpers.translateKey <imdb.helpers.translateKey>` function.

If you want to add i18n to your Cinemagoer-based application, all you need to do
is to switch to the ``imdbpy`` text domain:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> import os
   >>> os.environ['LANG'] = 'it_IT'
   >>> from imdb.locale import _
   >>> _('art-department')
   'Dipartimento artistico'

If you want to translate Cinemagoer into another language, see
the :ref:`translate` document for instructions.


Articles in titles
------------------

To convert a title to its canonical format as in "Title, The", Cinemagoer makes
some assumptions about what is an article and what isn't, and this can lead
to some wrong canonical titles. For example, it can canonicalize the title
"Die Hard" as "Hard, Die" because it guesses "Die" as an article (and it is,
in Germany...).

To solve this problem, there are other keys: "smart canonical title",
"smart long imdb canonical title", "smart canonical series title",
"smart canonical episode title" which can be used to do a better job
converting a title into its canonical format.

This works, but it needs to know about articles in various languages:
if you want to help, see the :attr:`linguistics.LANG_ARTICLES` and
:attr:`linguistics.LANG_COUNTRIES` dictionaries.

To guess the language of a movie title, call its 'guessLanguage' method
(it will return None, if unable to guess).
If you want to force a given language instead of the guessed one, you
can call its 'smartCanonicalTitle' method, setting the 'lang' argument
appropriately.

Alternative titles
------------------

Sometimes it's useful to manage a title's alternatives (AKAs) knowing
their languages. In the 'helpers' module there are some (hopefully)
useful functions:

- ``akasLanguages(movie)`` - Given a movie, return a list of tuples
  in (lang, AKA) format (lang can be None, if unable to detect).

- ``sortAKAsBySimilarity(movie, title)`` - Sort the AKAs on a movie considering
  how much they are similar to a given title (see the code for more options).

- ``getAKAsInLanguage(movie, lang)`` - Return a list of AKAs of the movie
  in the given language (see the code for more options).
