.. _s3:

S3 datasets
===========

IMDb distributes some of its data as downloadable `datasets`_. Cinemagoer can
import this data into a database and make it accessible through its API.
[#ptdf]_

For this, you will first need to install `SQLAlchemy`_ and the libraries
that are needed for the database server you want to use. Check out
the `SQLAlchemy dialects`_ documentation for more detail.

Then, follow these steps:

#. Download the files from the following address and put all of them
   in the same directory: https://datasets.imdbws.com/

#. Create a database. Use a collation like ``utf8_unicode_ci``.

#. Import the data using the :file:`s32cinemagoer.py` script::

      s32cinemagoer.py /path/to/the/tsv.gz/files/ URI

   *URI* is the identifier used to access the SQL database. For example::

      s32cinemagoer.py ~/Download/imdb-s3-dataset-2018-02-07/ \
          postgresql://user:password@localhost/imdb

Please notice that for some database engines (like MySQL and MariaDB) you may need
to specify the charset on the URI and sometimes also the dialect, with something like 'mysql+mysqldb://username:password@localhost/imdb?charset=utf8'

Once the import is finished - which should take about an hour or less
on a modern system - you will have a SQL database with all the information
and you can use the normal Cinemagoer API:

.. code-block:: python

   from imdb import Cinemagoer

   ia = Cinemagoer('s3', 'postgresql://user:password@localhost/imdb')

   results = ia.search_movie('the matrix')
   for result in results:
       print(result.movieID, result)

   matrix = results[0]
   ia.update(matrix)
   print(matrix.keys())


.. note::

   Running the script again will drop the current tables and import
   the data again.


.. note::

   Installing the `tqdm`_ package, a progress bar is shown while the database
   is populated and the --verbose argument is used.


.. [#ptdf]

   Until the end of 2017, IMDb used to distribute a more comprehensive subset
   of its data in a different format. Cinemagoer can also import that data
   but note that the data is not being updated anymore. For more information,
   see :ref:`ptdf`.


.. _datasets: https://www.imdb.com/interfaces/
.. _SQLAlchemy: https://www.sqlalchemy.org/
.. _SQLAlchemy dialects: http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/dialects/
.. _tqdm: https://github.com/tqdm/tqdm
